Instructor: Now let's look
at a script that uses
two different for loops
in two different ways.
It starts the usual way,
importing the EarSketch library,
init(), set tempo to 130 bpm,
and defining
four different variables
that represent
four different sounds
from the EarSketch library.
And here's our first for loop
for measure in range 1 to 9.
It has two fitMedia() calls
inside of the for loop.
And the goal here is
for the first fitMedia()
function call to place
one drum sound
on the first half
of each measure,
and a second fitMedia() call
to place a different drum sound
on the second half
on each measure.
So to figure out more
about how this is working,
let's plot out
exactly what happens.
So our loop counter measure
is set to 1,
then 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8.
And when it gets to 9,
the loop stops,
so it's never set to 9.
Now the first fitMedia() call
places the sound "drums1"
on track 1 for measure
to measure+0.5.
So let's figure out
what measure+0.5 is
on each iteration of the loop.
The first time is 1.5.
So it's placing the sound
from 1 to 1.5.
That's the first half
of measure 1.
The second time,
it's from 2 to 2.5,
the first half of measure 2.
The third time from 3 to 3.5,
the first half of measure 3.
Then 4 to 4.5,
5 to 5.5, and so on.
Now the second fitMedia() call
places the "drums2" sound
on track 2 starting
at measure+0.5
and ending at measure+1.
So the first iteration loop,
that'll go from 1.5 to 2—
in other words,
the second half of measure 1—
and ending at the very beginning
of measure 2.
The next time from 2.5 to 3,
so the second half of measure 2
ending at the beginning
of measure 3.
The next time,
from 3.5 to 4,
so that's the second half
of measure 3
ending at the beginning
of measure 4.
And then from 4.5 to 5,
from 5.5 to 6,
and so on and so forth.
And if you look
at the DAW view,
you could see exactly
how this happens.
How all of those
first fitMedia() calls
are always putting
the drum sounds
on the first half
of each measure,
and all of the second set
of fitMedia() calls are placing
the different drums sound
on the second half
of each measure.
Now down here there's
two additional fitMedia() calls—
these aren't part
of any for loop—
that are simply placing
guitar and synth sounds
on tracks 3 and 4.
The guitar sound comes in
starting at the very beginning
of measure 1.
The synth sound doesn't
come in until measure 5.
And you can see that
in the DAW view as well,
looking at tracks 3 and 4.
Now let's look
at the last for loop here,
which controls
the panning of each track.
Now panning is simply a way
of controlling how much
a track sounds
in the left speaker
versus the right speaker
or the left ear of
your headphones
versus the right ear
of your headphones.
We use it with a constant PAM
parameter named "LEFT_RIGHT,"
and the minimum value
we can assign it is -100,
which is all the way
in the left speaker.
The maximum value of +100,
all the way
in the right speaker.
So here's some examples
of calls to setEffect().
The first will set the panning
for track one to -100,
all the way in the left speaker.
The second example here
sets the panning
for track 4 to 0.
That's right in the center,
halfway between left and right.
The third example sets
the panning for track 2 to +100,
all the way
in the right speaker.
Now let's look
at the for loop here.
Our loop counter is track,
so we're iterating across track
"for track in range 1 to 5,"
and inside
each iteration for loop,
we're setting a pan amount,
and I'll get into this equation
in a second.
And then we're setting
the effect for that track,
the PAN, LEFT_RIGHT, value
to the panAmount variable
that we just calculated.
So again let's try to use
a table to keep track
of what these values are
in each iteration of the loop.
So the track,
the loop counter track,
is set to 1 then 2
then 3 and then 4.
And when it gets
to 5 the loop stops,
so it's never set to 5.
Now in this panAmount equation,
one of the things
it's using is track minus 1.
So let's calculate that first.
So 1 minus 1 is 0.
2 minus 1 is 1.
3 minus 1 is 2.
4 minus 1 is 3.
Now let's look
at the whole equation.
The first time
we come through,
it's 200 times zero—
that's track minus 1
divided by 3 minus 100.
So 200 times 0 is 0.
0 divided by 3 is still 0.
0 minus 100 is -100.
So track 1 gets panned
all the way to the left.
The next time through,
it's going to be 200
times 1 divided by 3
minus 100.
So 200 times 1 is 200,
divided by 3 is about 66,
minus 100
is going to be about -33.
So a little bit to the left.
The next time through,
it'll be 200 times 2,
divided by 3, minus 100,
which is going to be
a little bit to the right, +33.
And the final time,
it will be 200 times 3,
divided by 3, minus 100.
200 times 3, divided by 3,
is just 200.
200 minus 100 is 100.
So it will be panned
all the way to the right.
And we can see that
if we look at the DAW view.
We can see
that track 1's panning
is all the way to the bottom,
it's minus 100, hard left.
Then -33, +33, and then +100.
And when we listen to this,
we can hear the panning
and we can hear
how each track
seems to be in a different place
in a left-right stereo space.
[dance music
with panned instruments]